# AOC 2024 Day 24

What a puzzle, man. 

## Part A

This one wasn't bad at all. Just had to only run the lines that we had all information for, and getting the binary value of z. In starting Part B, I thought it would be good to write a fancy `get_z()` method, which was a copy of how I got my answer for part A. 

## Part B (Brute-Forced)

Okay, here's the thing. 

First idea: brute force. Did the math on how many pairs of four I could make, and that's on the order of $4\cdot 10^{17}$ or something like that. So I didn't do that. 

Next idea: get it working for my input. But how would I possibly get it working manually for my input, you may ask? 

Well, we're supposed to be adding binary numbers. And it just so happens that there is a Wikipedia page on [this exact topic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adder_(electronics)) that I used before. Essentially, it comes down to defining registers creatively:


Let the registers $A_i:=X_i\oplus Y_i$, $B_i:=X_i\cdot Y_i$, $Z_i:=A_i\oplus C_{i-1}$, $D_i:=C_{i-1}\cdot A_i$, and $C_i=B_i+D_i$, where we define $C_0=0$. In this way, each of these variables now represents a variable in the [Full Adder](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adder_(electronics)#Full_adder) section on Wikipedia, where $C_i$ is the CARRY after adding the $i$-th digits, and $Z_i$ is the sum of the $i$-th digits plus whatever carry we had. 

Manually doing this, I just looked at the registers in code using a complicated print statement, where the prints in order are, for digit $i$, the registers corresponding to $A_i$, $B_i$, $Z_i$, $D_i$, and $C_i$ (in this order because this is the order they should be computed):
```python
print(I, x_xor_y[I], x_and_y[I], xor_in[I], and_in[I], carry[I])
```
Checking this actually gave me a lot of insight on how to program something that solved this automatically.

The first thing that goes wrong is that `xor_in[7]` was equal to something that wasn't `z07`. This is a red flag, as `xor_in[i] == z0i` for any value of `i`, so I had to add a swap of the pair `('z07', 'rts')`. Similar things happened for two more values of `i`, so I had to swap those as well. 

The last issue happened when `xor_in[34]` was `None`. This meant in my code that for the registers of $A_{34}$ and $C_{33}$, there was no XOR operation between them. I fixed this issue when it came up by swapping $A_{34}$ with $B_{34}$, which was swapping the pair `('chv', 'vvw')`. 

After finding the four swaps I needed, I just sorted and submitted. I actually mistyped one of them when I was manually typing them into the website because I can't read, so I just had the code do it for me. 

## Part B (General)

Looking at the above logic of why I swapped when I did, I just needed to fix those two cases (the second I'm not so sure about all the time):

1. If `xor_in[I] != None and xor_in[I] != zstr`, where `zstr` was the valid register, then swap those two registers and recompute `xor_in[I]`. 

2. If `xor_in[I] == None`, then swap `x_xor_y[I]` and `x_and_y[I]`, then recompute `xor_in[I]`. 


## Code